2	EGGS
2 tbsp.	water
1/8 tsp.	salt
Dash	pepper
1 tsp.	butter
1/3 cup	filling, such as shredded cheese, finely chopped ham
Yields: 1 serving

NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION
DIRECTIONS
BEAT eggs, water, salt and pepper in small bowl until blended.

HEAT butter in 6 to 8-inch nonstick omelet pan or skillet over medium-high heat until hot. TILT pan to coat bottom. POUR IN egg mixture. Mixture should set immediately at edges.

GENTLY PUSH cooked portions from edges toward the center with inverted turner so that uncooked eggs can reach the hot pan surface. CONTINUE cooking, tilting pan and gently moving cooked portions as needed.

When top surface of eggs is thickened and no visible liquid egg remains, PLACE filling on one side of the omelet. FOLD omelet in half with turner. With a quick flip of the wrist, turn pan and INVERT or SLIDE omelet onto plate. SERVE immediately.

INSIDER INFO
This French omelette recipe is a classic and versatile favorite. Fill with cheese and ham or change it up by adding leftover cooked vegetables.

Invent your own fillings. Some classic omelet fillings include shredded Cheddar or Gruyere cheese, sour cream, diced ham, crisp bacon, sautéed mushrooms, bell peppers or tomatoes, caramelized onions, fresh herbs or even leftovers from last night’s dinner.

For a sweet omelet, omit pepper and add a dash of sugar to egg mixture. Fill with preserves, finely chopped toasted nuts or berries; dust with powdered sugar. For an elegant touch, spoon a tablespoon of warmed Cognac or Grand Marnier over and flambé.

Prepare filling first. French omelettes cook so quickly, any fillings should be ready to go before starting the eggs. Plan on 1/3 to 1/2 cup filling per 2-egg omelet. Raw foods should be cooked. Refrigerated foods should be heated. Shredded cheese and room temperature foods, such as jams and jellies, are fine as is. Pieces should be small to prevent tearing the omelet when it’s folded.

Made-to-order: French omelettes are best cooked one at a time and served immediately.

For more servings, multiply the French omelette recipe as needed, preparing only as many eggs as you will use in a short time. Use 1/2 cup egg mixture per omelet.

Omelet pans are shallow and have sloped sides – designed for ease of moving the omelet mixture during cooking and for sliding the finished omelet out. If you don’t have an omelet pan, it’s best to use a heavy skillet with sloping sides.

For beginners: 1/3 to 1/2 cup filling for a 2-egg omelet can be difficult to manage at first. Try putting only half the filling inside the French omelette. Spoon the rest across the top of the omelet after it’s on the plate.

